#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 0
\use_mathdots 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Stichwortverzeichnis
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Conclusions
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:4"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary of Experiment's Results
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:Summary_of_Experiments_Results"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In general both MGNG-AD and HTM models performed similarly.
 There were indeed differences in the F1-Scores of some of the experiments,
 but given the amount of parameters involved it is not clear whether said
 differences arose from underlying characteristics of the methods or from
 the experiment's setup.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The MGNG-AD models seem to behave in general more smoothly than the HTM
 models, in the sense that the MGNG_AD models' anomaly_densities change
 less frequently than the HTM models' anomaly_likelihoods.
 Again, given the amount of parameters involved in the two models there
 is no clear reason for this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Worth of attention are the poor results in 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand formatted
reference "sub:The_chfdb/chf13_dataset"

\end_inset

.
 These are mainly due to the fact that the anomalies in it were marked as
 instantaneous events, while the underlying phenomena, represented by the
 behavior of the data stream, spanned a period of time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The recommended way of using MGNG-AD is under human supervision.
 It should not be the sole responsible of raising alarms, but rather it
 should be used to recognize potentially anomalous regions in a data stream,
 relying its automated analysis to a human for final classification.
 Feeding the time series to MGNG-AD after some other online process has
 cleared it from known anomalies could also prove useful.
 Such two stages process would leave a cleaner signal, making it easier
 for MGNG-AD to detect other kinds of anomalies.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Regarding other aspects of the methods, even though the HTM model needs
 a gargantuan amount of parameters (approx.
 50 plus 6-9 more for each input column) the swarm functionality allows
 the user to set them up quite easily.
 On the other hand the OPF does not allow the creation of a model for prediction
 of multiple variables, hence the need in 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand formatted
reference "sec:Multi-dimensional_time_series"

\end_inset

 of training multiple HTM models.
 Moreover, HTM is a much more complex approach.
 Its goal is not to merely detect anomalies, but to replicate part of the
 mammalian's brain functionality.
 Its hierarchical structure could admittedly allow it to discover certain
 types of anomalies that are beyond the capabilities of MGNG-AD.
 That same complexity, however, made HTM many times slower than MGNG-AD.
 For instance, in the experiment of 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand formatted
reference "sub:The_slpdb/spl37_dataset-1"

\end_inset

 swarming 300 rows of data took 00:09:52 and processing the whole 300000
 by the HTM model took 3:44:13; in contrast processing the same amount of
 data by the MGNG-AD model took only 00:26:55
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
CPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-3630QM @ 2.40GHz; RAM: 16GB.
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 This means that the MGNG-AD method allows the processing in real time of
 streams with far higher sampling frequency than the HTM method.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Future Work
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sec:Future_Work"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Define the anomaly score as:
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align*}
a_{t} & \coloneqq\rho\cdot a_{t-1}+d_{t}\left(0\le\rho<0.5,a_{t-1}\in\mathcal{A}\right)
\end{align*}

\end_inset

with
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align*}
d_{t} & \coloneqq D_{t}^{f,w}\left(\mathcal{K}^{Q},\mathcal{K}^{P}\right)
\end{align*}

\end_inset

The extra  term 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho\cdot a_{t-1}$
\end_inset

 should have, when 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho>0$
\end_inset

, the following consequences:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
a high anomaly level will last for more time steps than with 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho=0$
\end_inset

, and
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
the anomaly level will rise more quickly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Perform experiments to contrast with the normal MGNG-AD.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Use some concepts from the HTM and NuPIC:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
develop a hierarchical model: One MGNG model reads directly from the input,
 a second MGNG model uses as inputs the neurons from the first, and so on.
 Maybe more complex or other kinds of anomalies can be detected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
develop a predictive model: from the neuron's context and weight vectors
 try to determine the next input.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
use an approach similar to swarming for parameter selection.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Modify MGNG to use GNG-U 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Fritzke1997"

\end_inset

 instead of plain GNG.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
